src/content/doc/about.md, before:

---
title: 'About Me'
description: 'About me section'
---

Welcome to my website, amigos! My name is F. Javier R. Donado, I was born in Madrid (Spain), and I moved to Stuttgart (Germany) in September 2012.

I’ve been [writing software](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9LfmrkyP81M) since the early 2000s. My favorite programming languages are TypeScript, Python, and Kotlin, although I’ve used many more over the years, including Java, JavaScript, C++, Clojure, PHP, and Perl. My focus is web development (full-stack) and mobile apps using React Native.

I hold a master's degree in [Telecommunications Engineering](https://www.uc3m.es/master/telecommunication-engineering) and currently work as a [Solution Architect](https://scaledagileframework.com/solution-architect/) at [Porsche Digital](https://porsche.digital/) in Ludwigsburg. You can find my [CV here](https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B2hOO8PX6CgfamxFMUo3SmF4S2M) (Google Docs).

I’m passionate about flexible and scalable architectures, DDD, functional programming, AWS, Docker, VIM, Visual Studio Code, and the satisfying look and feel of my custom mechanical keyboard (with silent switches!).

In addition to writing software, I’m an [avid photographer](https://instagram.com/jdonadolens), guitar collector, and [music composer in my home studio](https://jdonado.bandcamp.com).

Auf Wiedersehen!

P.d.: were you looking for my old website? It's still online at [https://old-www.jdonado.com](https://old-www.jdonado.com)

Commit message:

feat: improved contents of the about section

src/content/doc/about.md, after:

---
title: 'About Me'
description: 'About me section'
---

My name is **Javier Donado**. I’m a [solution architect and full-stack developer](https://linkedin.com/in/jdonado), [writing code](https://github.com/mrdonado) since the early 2000s.

Beyond coding, I’m a passionate [travel photographer](https://instagram.com/jdonadolens), and a longtime [guitarist and composer](https://jdonado.bandcamp.com).

Welcome to my website! Feel free to reach out anytime on [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/jdonado) or [X.com](https://twitter.com/jdonado)!

---

- **Spanish**, living in **Germany** since 2012
- M.Sc. in [Telecommunications Engineering](https://www.uc3m.es/master/telecommunication-engineering)
- I speak 🇪🇸 Spanish, 🇬🇧 English, 🇩🇪 German, and 🇬🇷 Greek (a little bit)
- I prefer TypeScript, Python, Kotlin, AWS, React.js, and React Native
- I ❤️ Vim, Git, Obsidian, DDD, Product Development, Anki, the CLI...
- [Porsche employee](https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B2hOO8PX6CgfamxFMUo3SmF4S2M) since 2018
- I've been to 🇪🇪 🇫🇮 🇸🇪 🇩🇰 🇯🇵 🇰🇷 🇮🇹 🇨🇦 🇺🇸 🇵🇹 🇳🇴 🇴🇲 🇦🇪 🇦🇹 🇸🇰 🇭🇺 🇻🇳 🇬🇷 🇭🇰 🇨🇴 🇨🇷 🇨🇿 🇭🇷 🇧🇦 🇬🇧 🇳🇱 🇩🇪 🇫🇷 🇹🇳 🇨🇺 🇪🇸
- Old website [still available](https://old-www.jdonado.com)
